The argument that the Dutch succeeded and the Spanish failed is absolutely valid because the Dutch and Spain had key differences that directly resulted in the outcomes of their countries. Spain failed because it adopted a bullionist-type economy, while the Dutch adopted a mercantilist approach. Spain persecuted the middle class, whereas the Dutch established an environment where they could thrive. Additionally, Spain was ruled by a line of increasingly more and more incapable monarchs, burdened by the inbreeding of the Habsburg royal family. These distinct differences in the economic, social, and political environments of Spain and the Dutch perfectly explain why it is true that the Dutch succeeded and the Spanish failed. 
During the early 1700s, Spain started falling off, and the country lost the dominant power it once had for 200 years, back when Ferdinand and Isabella were in power. Spain had its own economic system, which was not Mercantilism. Their economy was essentially bullionist and dependent on the precious metals they put into their treasury. Although Spain controlled major gold and silver mines in South and Central America and extracted tremendous quantities of precious metals to put into the treasury, their economy started overheating because the value of these rare metals started to diminish as more were injected into the country. Spain was inflating their economy by adding more and more precious metals without taking its wealth and investing it into different markets and diversifying their economy. Instead of investing its wealth, Spain wasted money on things that wouldn't earn any economic long-term benefits, like El Escorial, which was Phillip II's home, and their consistent wars that took place during the middle of the 1500s into the early 1700s. This led to the decline of the precious metal reserves and resulted in Spain defaulting on the loans that came from the Dutch. It's pretty hard to call Spain a success story compared to the Dutch, when Spain was literally failing to pay back loans from the Dutch. Unlike Spain, the Dutch were able to be so successful because of Mercantilism. This economic system provided countries with a lot more opportunities to expand and invest in diverse markets. While the Spanish solely relied on precious metals, the Dutch first started out in shipping goods all around the world and trading. They then started establishing ports all around the world in Africa and North America. They were involved with pretty much every market and even established their own industries, like agriculture. They were amazing at shipping goods quickly, and they even traded with the Japanese. The Dutch did not put all their eggs in one basket, and they got involved with as many markets and industries as possible, which expanded their economy and led to their success, unlike the Spanish, who solely relied on precious metals. 
Along with economic approaches, one of the biggest reasons why the Spanish failed while the Dutch were successful was that the Spanish persecuted their middle class, while the middle class thrived in Dutch society and played important roles in banking, commerce, and shipping. To truly expand an economy, having a strong middle class is essential because the people who make up the middle class are the investors, innovators, engineers, and entrepreneurs who contribute to the building of infrastructure and creation of businesses that stimulate a country's economy. Instead of supporting the middle class like the Dutch did, Spain had the Inquisition, which attempted to create religious uniformity by persecuting Jews and Muslims. 

---

The headlines bury Ukraine's rich cultural identity beneath the ruins of war. While the devastation cannot be ignored, neither can the culture that still thrives in my home today. There's a bowl of borscht simmering on the stove, ready to be served, and it falls on me to grab a spoon and share that heritage with others and, in turn, listen to their stories, just as you have read mine. I realized that one does not need to sit in the Oval Office to bridge the cultural divide between nations. Even I, transformed by the profound threat of war still looming over family members in Ukraine, can lead the exchange of stories. This led me to found Noteworthy News, a news page I started with two friends. I now connect and continue to communicate with people from diverse backgrounds, sharing stories just as noteworthy as my own and fostering cultural exchange among millions who have seen my posts worldwide. In that sense, I am, after all, in my own way, Mr. President.
